[Music]
check this out what were 60,000
jellyfish doing in space the backstroke
when and why was Niagara Falls dry where
can you see a green sunset and a
flowering desert let's dig into some of
the Earth's mysteries the earth had a
second moon a space rock the size of a
car had come up to close and had been
tangled into our planets gravitational
pull for at least a year in March 2020
it left Earth for the sun's orbit this
was only the second confirmed mini moon
after the one spotted in 2006 in 1991
NASA sent to space around 2,500
jellyfish polyps in bags with artificial
seawater by the end of the mission they
had multiplied to 60,000 jellies
scientists wanted to see if jellies born
in space would be able to adapt to
Earth's gravity after coming back sadly
they didn't do so well humans and
jellyfish have similar gravity sensing
structures so humans born during long
future space missions could have some
massive vertigo back on earth - in 1859
the biggest solar storm ever was
recorded it was so powerful northern
lines were spotted in Cuba and Honolulu
and southern lights were seen as far up
as Santiago Chile in latitudes like that
of New York people were able to read
newspapers in the dark under those
Northern Lights alone if something
similar happened today it would have
cost the world about 1.2 trillion
dollars
speaking of rare bright lights have you
ever spotted a green flash it happened
shortly after sunset or before sunrise
when the Sun is almost entirely below
the horizon and the Earth's atmosphere
bends and scatters lights from it people
mostly spotted over the ocean it can
also be yellow blue or purple I've
actually seen one myself lucky me
when ecology and volcano in Indonesia
erupts it looks like it's spitting out
bright blue and purple lava in fact the
lava itself is normal it's the sulfuric
gas coming out of the magma chamber and
burning that makes it look so surreal
for the same reason the water in the
crater lake seems bright blue and the
shores electric yellow Niagara Falls was
once dry in 1969 engineers turned off
two of the three Falls making up the
landmark they did it to remove the rocks
that had piled up at the base of the
falls over the first weekend of the
renovation works alone about 100,000
tourists visited the spot in racetrack
Playa California rocks about as heavy as
a horse are moving around on their own
and leaving trails behind there were
different theories to explain this from
magnetic fields to aliens
finally a NASA scientist found out that
in winter rain water in the playa
freezes over rocks getting cased in ice
when it starts to melt
even a light breeze is enough to move
the boulders around once a year for just
a few moments a waterfall in Yosemite
National Park turns into a fire fall in
winter and early spring two streams flow
down the granite El Capitan in perfect
conditions in February when the Sun is
hiding behind the horizon it gets in the
right position to reflect off the wall
and color the water fiery orange the
Danakil depression in Ethiopia is a
one-of-a-kind landscape with crackling
pools of lava and neon hot springs and
geysers it's one of the hottest and
lowest places on earth
that hardly receives any rainfall
scientists studied this area to find out
how life might evolve on other planets
many of them call it the cradle of
humanity some places on earth have less
gravity than others Canada's Hudson Bay
for example used to be covered by a
super thick and heavy glacier during the
last ice age the ice had pushed tons of
rock mass outward when it started to
melt the smaller the mass of an object
the less gravity it has it'll take
another five thousand years for the
earth to return to its original shape in
this spot there are underwater lakes and
rivers in the ocean the water in them is
denser and more saline than the rest of
the ocean they have shoreline surfaces
and even waves and smaller rivers also
flow into larger ones they can be found
across the world from the coast of
Greenland to the Bay of Bengal one of
the most unique natural optical
illusions on earth is an underwater
waterfall off the coast of Mauritius no
worries the island isn't going down the
drain sand is moving through the
underwater currents into the darker
deeper ocean and creates the illusion
the Shelf here is ten times deeper than
the rest of the surrounding waters there
used to be a never-ending wave in Brazil
the pororoca which translates as big
roar in the Amazon basin went on for
hours and was so powerful it could take
down trees surfers from across the world
came here in early spring to ride more
than a half an hour in a row the record
was six miles non-stop on a single
attempt one of the driest places on
earth Chile's Atacama Desert turns into
a garden every five to seven years with
enough rainfall between September and
November super blooms spreads overnight
the seeds of over 200 types of flowers
sleep in the ground for months or years
waiting for that water to help them
sprout
mineral gypsum sometimes crystallizes in
a row shape it happens in dry sandy
areas that occasionally get flooded the
petals of desert roses are made of
crystals that get mixed with grains of
sand Lake Maracaibo in Venezuela is
often called the lightning capital of
the world
thunderstorms happen here 300 days of
the year with a peak in September
sometimes there are up to 200 flashes in
a minute it happens because cool air
coming from the surrounding Andes meets
with warm air from the Caribbean Sea and
generates electricity in 2010 spiders
cocoon the trees and bushes in Pakistan
they did so to save themselves from a
flood when 10 years worth of rain poured
down in a single week some of the webs
even stretched over several trees one of
the rarest types of clouds are
lenticular clouds that look like giant
mountain hats they're formed when moist
air is traveling over a mountain or a
mountain range and gets into an area of
turbulence they are so rare in flatland
people sometimes take them for
unidentified flying objects you can spot
flowers in the Arctic Ocean in the midst
of winter these frost flowers are made
of ice in which microbes somehow manage
to survive
studying them could help scientists
better understand how life formed on
Earth Lake Abraham in Canada looks like
it's home to tens of thousands of
jellyfish living under ice in reality
they are frozen pockets of methane gas
produced by bacteria that live in the
lake there is a cave in New Zealand
that's lit by glow worms why tamil caves
were discovered in late 19th century and
have been popular with tourists ever
since there are thousands of
bioluminescent larvae of various worm
species in the caves all of them are
harmless one of the oldest and largest
organisms on earth is a clonal Grove
nicknamed Pando in Utah
it looks like 47,000 trees but in fact
it's one huge tree it has 3 sets of
chromosomes
instead of two and can keep making
unlimited new shoots from its own roots
scientists believe it's at least eighty
thousand years old volcanoes can produce
lightnings they're formed in columns of
volcanic ash through friction and static
electricity to connect the positively
and negatively charged particles to
understand how it works you can rub a
balloon across your hair or your feet
across a carpet and then touch a metal
doorknob yeah go ahead I'll wait now
about once a year you can spot a rare
firenado in the US
fire tornado start when a strong wind
picks up heat from a fire they're made
of flame or ash they're different from
regular tornadoes because they don't
start from cyclones fire Nadeau's are
about as tall as the Leaning Tower of
Pisa
unlike fire Nadeau's fire rainbows don't
cause any damage at all they aren't
about fire or water fire rainbows only
happen when the Sun is very high in the
sky and its light is passing through ice
clouds a white rainbow is a rare
illusion created by fog and water like a
usual rainbow its form when light is
shining through droplets of water it
loses color because fog droplets are
hundreds of times smaller than those of
rain a white rainbow is sometimes
mistaken for moon ball that one happens
at nighttime and is illuminated by the
moon that's why it's not so bright kind
of like me
[Music]